[DOCS-5905] Updating getting started in blue ocean doc (#5306)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/blueocean/getting-started.adoc

= Getting started with Blue Ocean

This section describes how to get started with Blue Ocean in Jenkins.
It includes instructions for link:#installing-blue-ocean[setting up Blue Ocean] on

> your Jenkins instance, how to link:#accessing-blue-ocean[access the Blue Ocean UI] and link:#switching-to-the-classic-ui[returning to the Jenkins classic UI].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your Jenkins instance, how to link:#accessing-blue-ocean[access the Blue Ocean UI], and link:#switching-to-the-classic-ui[returning to the Jenkins classic UI].
```

== Installing Blue Ocean

> Blue Ocean can be installed using the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Blue Ocean using the following methods:
```

* As a suite of plugins on an link:#on-an-existing-jenkins-instance[existing Jenkins instance]. 
* As a part of link:#as-part-of-jenkins-in-docker[Jenkins in Docker].

=== On an existing Jenkins instance

When Jenkins is installed on most platforms, the plugin:blueocean[Blue Ocean] plugin and all necessary dependent plugins, which compile the Blue Ocean suite of plugins, are not installed by default.

To install the Blue Ocean suite of plugins on an existing Jenkins instance, your instance must be running Jenkins 2.7.x or later.

> Plugins can be installed on a Jenkins instance, by any Jenkins user who has the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins can be installed on a Jenkins instance by any Jenkins user who has the
```

*Administer* permission. This is set through *Matrix-based security*.
Jenkins users with this permission can also configure the permissions of other users on their system.

> Refer to the link:../../security/managing-security/#authorization[Authorization] section of link:../../security/managing-security/[Managing Security] for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the link:../../security/managing-security/#authorization[Authorization] section of link:../../security/managing-security/[Managing Security] for more information.
```

To install the Blue Ocean suite of plugins to your Jenkins instance:

. Ensure you are logged in to Jenkins as a user with the *Administer* permission.
. From the Jenkins home page, select *Manage Jenkins* on the left and then *Manage Plugins*.

> . Select the *Available* tab and enter `blue ocean` into the *Filter* text box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Available* tab and enter `blue ocean` in the *Filter* text box.
```

This filters the list of plugins based on the name and description.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/intro/blueocean-plugins-filtered.png[alt="Available Blue Ocean plugins after being filtered list.",width=100%]
. Select the box to the left of *Blue Ocean*, and then select either the *Download now and install after restart* option (recommended) or the *Install without restart* option at the bottom of the page.
+
[NOTE]
====

> * There is no need to select the boxes of other plugins in this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is not necessary to select other plugins in this list.
```

> The main *Blue Ocean* plugin will automatically select and install all dependent plugins, composing the Blue Ocean suite of plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main *Blue Ocean* plugin automatically selects and installs all dependent plugins, composing the Blue Ocean suite of plugins.
```

> * If you select the *Install without restart* option, you will need to restart Jenkins in order to gain full Blue Ocean functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you select the *Install without restart* option, you must restart Jenkins to gain full Blue Ocean functionality.
```

====

> Refer to the the link:../../managing/plugins[Managing Plugins] page to find out more about installing and managing plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the the link:../../managing/plugins[Managing Plugins] page for more information.
```

> Blue Ocean requires no additional configuration after installing, and existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blue Ocean does not require additional configuration after installation.
```

> Pipelines and projects will continue to work as usual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing pipelines and projects will continue to work as usual.
```

> NOTE: The first time a link:../creating-pipelines[Pipeline is created in Blue Ocean] for a specific Git server, Blue Ocean prompts you for credentials to access your repositories on the Git server in order to create Pipelines within those repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The first time you link:../creating-pipelines[Create a pipeline in Blue Ocean] for a specific Git server, Blue Ocean prompts you for your Git credentials to allow you to create pipelines in the repositories.
```

This is required since Blue Ocean can add a `Jenkinsfile` to your repositories.

=== As part of Jenkins in Docker

The Blue Ocean suite of plugins is not bundled with the official Jenkins Docker image, link:https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkins/jenkins/[`jenkins/jenkins`], which is available from the link:https://hub.docker.com/[Docker Hub repository].

Read more about running Jenkins and Blue Ocean inside Docker in the link:../../installing/#docker[Docker] section of the installing Jenkins page.

== Accessing Blue Ocean

> Once a Jenkins environment has Blue Ocean installed, and after logging in to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a Jenkins environment has Blue Ocean installed and you log in to the
```

Jenkins classic UI, you can access the Blue Ocean UI by selecting *Open Blue
Ocean* on the left side of the screen.

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/intro/open-blue-ocean-link.png[alt="Open Blue Ocean link",width=20%]

Alternatively, you can access Blue Ocean directly by appending `/blue` to the end of your Jenkins server's URL.
For example `\https://jenkins-server-url/blue`.

If your Jenkins instance:

> * Already has existing Pipeline projects or other items present, then the link:../dashboard[Blue Ocean Dashboard] is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Already has existing pipeline projects or other items present, the link:../dashboard[Blue Ocean Dashboard] displays.
```

> * Is new or has no projects or other items configured, then Blue Ocean displays a *Welcome to Jenkins* pane with a *Create a new Pipeline* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Is new or does not have projects or other items configured, Blue Ocean displays a *Welcome to Jenkins* pane with a *Create a new Pipeline* button.
```

> You can select this to begin creating a new Pipeline project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select this to begin creating a new pipeline project.
```

> Refer to the link:../creating-pipelines[Creating a Pipeline] page for more information on creating a Pipeline project in Blue Ocean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the link:../creating-pipelines[Creating a Pipeline] page.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/creating-pipelines/create-a-new-pipeline-box.png['Welcome to Jenkins - Create a New Pipeline message box',width=50%]

== Navigation bar

> The Blue Ocean UI has a navigation bar along the top of its interface, allowing you to access the different views and features of Blue Ocean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Blue Ocean UI has a navigation bar along the top of its interface, allowing you to access the different views and features.
```

The navigation bar is divided into two sections:

* A common section along the top of most Blue Ocean views.
* A contextual section below.

The contextual section is specific to the current Blue Ocean page you are viewing.

The navigation bar's common section includes the following buttons:

> * *Jenkins*: Selecting the Jenkins icon takes you to the link:../dashboard[Dashboard], or reloads this page if you are already viewing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Jenkins*: Selecting the Jenkins icon takes you to the link:../dashboard[Dashboard] or reloads this page if you are already viewing it.
```

* *Pipelines*: This also takes you to the Dashboard.

> If you are already on the Dashboard, this would reload the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are already on the Dashboard, this option reloads the page.
```

This button serves a different purpose when you are viewing a link:../pipeline-run-details[Pipeline run details] page.

> * *Administration*: This takes you to the *link:../../managing[Manage Jenkins]* page of the Jenkins classic UI.This button is not available if your Jenkins user does not have the *Administer* permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Administration*: This takes you to the *link:../../managing[Manage Jenkins]* page of the Jenkins classic UI. This button is not available if you do not have the *Administer* permission.
```

Refer to the link:../../managing/security/#authorization[Authorization] section of the Managing Security page for more information.
* *Go to classic* icon: This takes you back to the Jenkins classic UI.
Read more about this in <<switching-to-the-classic-ui>>.

> * *Logout*: This logs out your current Jenkins user and returns to the Jenkins login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Logout*: This logs out your current Jenkins user and returns you to the Jenkins login page.
```

> Views that use the common navigation bar will add another bar below it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Views that use the common navigation bar add another bar below it.
```

> This second bar will include options specific to that view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This second bar includes options specific to that view.
```

Some views replace the common navigation bar with one specifically suited to that view.

== Switching to the classic UI

Blue Ocean does not support some legacy or administrative features of Jenkins
that are necessary to some users.

If you need to access these features, select the *Go to classic* icon at the top of a common section of Blue Ocean's link:#navigation-bar[navigation bar].

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/intro/go-to-classic-icon.png[alt="Go to classic icon",width=5%]

> Selecting this button takes you to the equivalent page in the Jenkins classic UI, or the most relevant classic UI page that parallels the current page in Blue Ocean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting this button takes you to the equivalent page in the Jenkins classic UI or the most relevant classic UI page that parallels the current page in Blue Ocean.
```

= Getting started with Blue Ocean

This section describes how to get started with Blue Ocean in Jenkins.
It includes instructions for link:#installing-blue-ocean[setting up Blue Ocean] on
your Jenkins instance, how to link:#accessing-blue-ocean[access the Blue Ocean UI], and link:#switching-to-the-classic-ui[returning to the Jenkins classic UI].

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

== Installing Blue Ocean

You can install Blue Ocean using the following methods:

* As a suite of plugins on an link:#on-an-existing-jenkins-instance[existing Jenkins instance]. 
* As a part of link:#as-part-of-jenkins-in-docker[Jenkins in Docker].

=== On an existing Jenkins instance

When Jenkins is installed on most platforms, the plugin:blueocean[Blue Ocean] plugin and all necessary dependent plugins, which compile the Blue Ocean suite of plugins, are not installed by default.

> To install the Blue Ocean suite of plugins on an existing Jenkins instance, your instance must be running Jenkins 2.7.x or later.

Reviewer 2: While the statement is accurate, I don't think it is relevant.  Jenkins 2.7.x is so old that users won't be reading this page to learn about  it.
```suggestion
```

Author: Totally makes sense Mark, I'll remove this so that there's less ambiguity with the text!
